# gba-web-scrapper
#### A web scraping script to get the title of all GBA games.
#### Author: João Pedro Bernardo
---
## > How does it work?
Utilizing the [Puppeteer](pptr.dev) library, the script opens an instance of Chromium in headless mode (the app is running, you just can't see it) and connects to specified web pages to execute any kind of interaction.
In the context of the project, I used it to fetch the title of every single GBA (GameBoy Advance) game listed on the [Nintendo Life](www.nintendolife.com) website. Being a JavaScript library, Puppeteer makes it easy to interact with the DOM elements, thus enabling us to scrape **public data** from any website. After scraping, the collected data is then written into a txt file utilizing the node file system. More details in the code comments.

## ⚠️ Please note that using these tools to access data that you would not be able to get otherwise is ILLEGAL! This project only "sums up" a public list!

## > Description of the files

- **index.js**: Contains the commented code, our protagonist.
- **gba_games.txt**: It's the result you get after executing the script with the node command, a list of GBA game titles. (according to the font mentioned earlier).
- **package** and **package-lock.json**: Files generated by npm when you start a project, they basically contain metadata and info on the dependencies.

## > Other details

- You'll need to have node.js installed to run the script;
- It does take a while (around 10 seconds) to run, and variations will depend on your internet connection;
- Script may not work if the website is hardly altered (eg.: changes in the HTML classes, page being deleted...);
- If you execute the script more than once, it'll simply rewrite the .txt file;

## > Conclusion

The end result is rather pointless for most people, but this is mostly a study case. As said earlier, public data can be scraped from anywhere, and being able to extract it automatically is a powerful tool to speed up researches, keep track of many things (eg.: currencies) and even train AI models.
